Push Relabel Maximum Flow (#4000)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: content/6_Advanced/Max_Flow.mdx

</CPPSection>
</LanguageSection>

### Push-Relabel Algorithm

The [Push-Relabel Algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Push%E2%80%93relabel_maximum_flow_algorithm) is an alternative solution to finding the maximum flow.

> To find the maximum flow, we'll handle a **preflow**.
> The only difference between this and a normal flow is that the incoming flow can exceed the out coming flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find the maximum flow, we'll handle a **preflow**.
The only difference between this and a normal flow is that the incoming flow can exceed the outgoing flow.
```

Let's define the excess flow of node u as: $in_u - out_u$, where $in$ is the incoming flow and $out$ is the outgoing flow.

> The algorithm starts with an initial preflow where the source has an excess flow. At every stage, it picks a node with the excess flow and tries to **push** the excess to its neighbors, if the capacity supports it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The algorithm starts with an initial preflow where the source has an excess flow. At every stage, it picks a node with the excess flow and **pushes** the excess to its neighbors, if the capacity supports it.
```

> To push excess flow from node u to node v we define $\Delta = min(excess_u, capacity_{u,v} - flow_{u,v})$, where $\Delta$ is the maximum supported flow by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To push excess flow from node $u$ to node $v$, we define $\Delta = min(excess_u, capacity_{u,v} - flow_{u,v})$, where $\Delta$ is the maximum supported flow by the
```

> The algorithm starts with an initial preflow where the source has an excess flow. Every stage it picks a node with excess flow and tries to **push** the excess to its neighbours, if the capacity supports it.
> To push excess flow from node u to node v we define $\Delta = min(excess_u, capacity_{u,v} - flow_{u,v})$, where $\Delta$ is the maximum supported flow by the
> edge $(u, v)$. The process stops when there are no more excess node left in the flow network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The algorithm starts with an initial preflow where the source has an excess flow. At every stage, it picks a node with the excess flow and tries to **push** the excess to its neighbors if the capacity supports it.
To push excess flow from node u to node v we define $\Delta = min(excess_u, capacity_{u,v} - flow_{u,v})$, where $\Delta$ is the maximum supported flow by the
edge $(u, v)$. The process stops when no more excess nodes are left in the flow network.
```

Author: Ok

> edge $(u, v)$. The process stops when no more excess nodes are left in the flow network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
edge $(u, v)$. The process stops when there are no more excess nodes in the flow network.
```

> Another important feature of the algorithm is the **labeling** function $h$, also know as the height function, which assignes each node an
> integer. One labeling in valid if satisfies the following conditions: $h_{source} = |V|$, $h_{sink} = 0$ and $h_u \le h_v + 1$ if there is an edge from node $u$
> to node $v$ with positive capacity, i.e. it supports more flow. The height function helps us know where to send the excess flow, where it's needed. It's like water, it can only
> flows from top to bottom.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another important feature of the algorithm is the **labeling** function $h$, also known as the height function, which assigns each node an
integer. One labeling in valid if satisfies the following conditions: $h_{source} = |V|$, $h_{sink} = 0$ and $h_u \le h_v + 1$ if there is an edge from node $u$
to node $v$ with positive capacity, i.e. it supports more flow. The height function helps us know where to send the excess flow, and where it's needed. It's like water, it can only
flow from top to bottom.
```

Author: Ok

> Another important feature of the algorithm is the **labeling** function $h$, also known as the height function, which assigns each node an
> integer. One labeling in valid if satisfies the following conditions: $h_{source} = |V|$, $h_{sink} = 0$ and $h_u \le h_v + 1$ if there is an edge from node $u$
> to node $v$ with positive capacity, i.e. it supports more flow. The height function helps us know where to send the excess flow, and where it's needed. It's like water, it can only
> flow from top to bottom.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another important feature of the algorithm is the **labeling** function $h$, also known as the height function, which assigns each node an
integer. One labeling in valid if satisfies the following conditions: $h_{source} = |V|$, $h_{sink} = 0$, and $h_u \le h_v + 1$. If there is an edge from node $u$
to node $v$ with positive capacity, i.e. it supports more flow. The height function tells us where to send the excess flow, and where it's needed. It's like water, it can only
flow from top to bottom.
```

(optional)

if u can, please try and reword or split this (specifically the "supports more flow"), it just reads a bit confusing imo

> To summarize: Start with a valid preflow and a valid labeling. In each step, for every excess node, try to push excess flow to node's neighbours. After each step
> check if the flow and the labeling are still valid. If they are and there are no more path between the $source$ and the $sink$ it means it found the maximum flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To summarize: Start with a valid preflow and a valid labeling. In each step, for every excess node, try to push excess flow to the node's neighbors. After each step
check if the flow and the labeling are still valid. If they are and there are no more paths between the $source$ and the $sink$ it means it found the maximum flow.
```

Author: Alright

> To summarize: Start with a valid preflow and a valid labeling. In each step, for every excess node, try to push excess flow to the node's neighbors. After each step
> check if the flow and the labeling are still valid. If they are and there are no more paths between the $source$ and the $sink$ it means it found the maximum flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To summarize: Start with a valid preflow and a valid labeling. In each step, for every excess node, try to push the excess flow to the node's neighbors. After each step check if the flow and the labeling are still valid. If they are and there are no more paths between the $source$ and the $sink$, it means the maximum flow has been found.
```

> The difference between Edmond's Karp (or Ford-Fulkerson) and Push-Relabel algorithm is that the former keeps a valid flow all the time and improves it while

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The difference between the Edmonds-Karp (or Ford-Fulkerson) and the Push-Relabel algorithm is that the former keeps a valid flow all the time and improves it while
```

EDMOND's

> The difference between Edmond's Karp (or Ford-Fulkerson) and Push-Relabel algorithm is that the former one keeps a valid flow all the time and improves it while
> there are augmenting paths, while in the Push-Relabel there doesn't exist an augmenting path at any time, and it improves the preflow until it reaches the maximum flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The difference between Edmond's Karp (or Ford-Fulkerson) and Push-Relabel algorithm is that the former keeps a valid flow all the time and improves it while
there are augmenting paths, while in the Push-Relabel there doesn't exist an augmenting path at any time, and it improves the preflow until it reaches the maximum flow.
```

Author: Done

</CPPSection>
</LanguageSection>

> ### Push-Relabel Algorithm

Reviewer 2: is there a wikipedia article for this

Author: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Push%E2%80%93relabel_maximum_flow_algorithm
